Today is a day to commemorate and a day to salute. We commemorate the
magnificent Challenger 7, whom we lost last year at this time, and we salute
you, the men and women of America's NASA team. America will never forget that
terrible moment a year ago when our elation turned to horror and then to grief
and pain. Seven of our final missions have reached for the boundaries of space,
where Earth ends and the path to the stars begins. In the next decade, we will
build and fly a new space shuttle. For me, this is a special commitment. In the
first moments of grief and shock, the bereaved families of the crew urged them
to continue their program moving forward. We owe it to them and to those whom
we, too, lost to do just that. Now, I know that voices have been raised from
time to time and saying, oh yes, it's exciting and adventurous, but does it have
any practical value to justify its cost? Well the answer to that question is a
resounding yes. Perhaps we've been derelict in not doing more to make known the
literally thousands of human oriented technological developments that have spun
off from the program and which will affect all our lives and the lives of our
children and our children's children. There's every reason to believe these
spinoffs will become of tremendous value. I understand that a project is now
being developed to pass on to all Americans specific knowledge of this aspect of
the space program. The United States Space Foundation, a non-profit educational
foundation, is preparing a series of TV and radio public service statements so
that all Americans will be aware of these achievements and how they will benefit
all of our lives. I think this is a worthy effort. Yes, whether it's in the
exploration of space or the applications of space research here at home, the
future to which you are leading us is bright. The challenge that you are
shouldering for all mankind is one that we cannot turn away from. We owe it to
our children and their children and generations beyond. We owe it to ourselves.
We owe it to those who, with all their love and joy and courage taught us again
just one year ago today that mankind you reach must exceed its grasp or what's a
heaven for.
Historians agree that astronomy and the study of space is the oldest of the
physical sciences. It has captured the attention of philosophers and farmers,
lovers and lawyers, virtually everyone who shares this spaceship, we call Earth.
On the walls of caves, in the mythology of the earliest times, he found the
globe to understand the nature of the universe. Creating models from his
observations, he was able to construct calendars used in...
[Static.]
[Silence.]
...extending our reach into space. Man's understanding accelerated.
And then, something very special happened.
[Silence.]